You will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
Nearly 2,000 years ago, Jesus laid the groundwork for true missionary service.
Since then, how have others answered the call to service a missionary?
That's the subject of this episode of Our History in Motion.
In the first century, Paul, Barnabas, Mark, and others traveled extensively to bring the good news to people
and rejoice as they saw them respond.
Jehovah's people have continued this mission today with the same zeal, tireless dedication and joy.
C.T. Russell and J.F. Rutherford were missionaries themselves.
Both traveled to distant lands such as the Philippines, France, Greece, Egypt, Israel, and India.
Their goal to reach as many as possible with the wonderful kingdom message.
Their fine example led others to reach out and do the same.
In 1922, William Har Brown, who had been preaching throughout the Caribbean, wrote to Brother Rutherford.
I have given a witness throughout the majority of the Caribbean islands.
Should I go over them again?
Brother Rutherford's reply, proceed to Sierra Leone, West Africa.
And that's just what he did.
Brother Brown and his family served 27 years in West Africa, always emphasizing the importance of the Bible,
which aptly earned him the name, Bible Brown.
When looking back over many decades of faithful service, how did Brother Brown feel?
He said, what a joy it is to see men and women becoming obedient to the good news of God's kingdom.
It is one of the highest privileges that can be offered to a human creature to be an ambassador of Jehovah.
In July 1926, George Wright and Edwin Skinner left London on a boat headed to Bombay, India, now known as Mumbai.
There, these brothers set up a small branch office to oversee the preaching work.
To spread the kingdom message, the two brothers would split up.
One traveled deep into the land, while the other stayed back to care for the branch office matters.
By 1938, a great witness had been given all throughout the land.
Twenty-four congregations were established.
Literature was translated and then distributed.
Public meetings were arranged, and the good news was even delivered by radio.
But then came World War II, and in over 50 nations, the work of Jehovah's Witnesses was restricted.
The door appeared to be closing for accepting missionaries in many parts of the earth.
From a human standpoint, it could have seemed wise to pause the missionary work.
But Jehovah knew better.
In September 1942, Nathan North, full of faith, proposed the establishment of a school to train missionaries.
The first class of the Watchtower Bible College of Gilead began on a winter day in upstate New York in 1943.
And the timing turned out to be just right, as World War II ended.
The door began opening back up, and a global opportunity awaited future missionaries.
Looking back, Gilead has had a huge impact on our worldwide growth.
For example, in 1949, Japan reported less than 10 local publishers.
Shortly thereafter, in 1950, five sisters, graduates of the 11th class of Gilead, arrived in Japan.
Among them was Lois Dyer, another missionary.
Over the next 30 years, Lois would travel all throughout Japan, bringing the good news to people that were hungry for it.
By 1980, Lois watched the publishers in Japan grow from 12 to over 50,000.
How rewarding.
In 2024, some 214,000 publishers preach the good news in Japan.
The Gilead has trained over 9,500 zealous kingdom proclaimers assigned to over 200 lands and island groups.
I often think about Gilead, the effect that it has now, not only on the field, and those that are going off in the missionary field, but the brothers as a whole.
They have gone into these countries, and they have acclimated themselves. They are a part of that country.
They are just as much at home there, those that have been there for a while as the natives.
And everyone that has had a part in it, either as a missionary or those of parents that have sent them off, they are never going to forget that.
And I think that is a legacy that will continue forever.
The opportunities for missionary work remain greater than ever.
For example, many graduates from the School for Kingdom evangelizers are assigned as field missionaries.
Jehovah is still holding the door wide open.
Hundreds of classes are held each year all around the world.
Have you considered applying?
The exciting adventure of missionary service continues today, as thousands make themselves available in imitation of the greatest missionary, Jesus Christ.
See you next time on Our History in Motion.